---
layout: post
title: "A Month Without An Apple Watch"
microblog: false
guid: http://greg-morris.micro.blog/2021/10/05/a-month-without.html
post_id: 3988060
date: 2021-10-05T12:39:00-0000
lastmod: 2021-10-05T12:39:00-0000
type: post
categories:
- "Essay"
url: /2021/10/05/a-month-without.html
---
<p>I’ve been toying with the idea of <a href="https://gregmorris.co.uk/stopping-wearing-my/">not using an Apple Watch</a> on off for a few years. Usually when summer rolls around and I don’t want a tan line I think about leaving it at home more, but always go back after a few days. Well, this year I had an enforced hiatus from having an Apple Watch and its taught me a few things.</p><p>I wrongly sold my Apple Watch a week before the new one was announced thinking I would be without it for a little over two weeks maximum. Yet here we are a month later and still a week or so to wait. It has been a weird experience because I have had one strapped to my wrist <a href="https://gregmorris.co.uk/i-like-this/">since the first version</a>. In fact, it is one of my favourite devices that I have ever purchased and, until the Series 6, have upgraded religiously each time. I can boil the reasons why I love wearing an Apple Watch Down to two areas and lacking one for a while has allowed me to see things a bit more clearly.</p><h2 id="heath-tracking">Heath Tracking</h2><p>I love being active, It’s as simple as that. Although many life things get in the way I always find time to work out, even just a little. Before the Apple Watch launched, I went through a series of fitness trackers, <a href="https://uk.pcmag.com/gadgets/21005/nike-sportwatch-gps">running watches</a> and <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nike%2B_FuelBand">fuel bands</a>. Nothing quite filled the areas that I wanted nor provided me with something I could rely on.</p><p>This is the area I have missed most while being ‘Apple Watchless’. Although I have enjoyed the odd run a little more being freed from the ability to check how fast I am going, I miss the tracking. Being able to see how much I have been moving and see if I need to push a little further to fill my rings is priceless. I also like being able to keep an eye on my heart rate first thing in the morning and can often spot tiredness or illness coming before I feel it.</p><p>Of course, there are alternatives to this. However, health data is so personal I don’t trust anyone else with it. I have years of health data in iCloud, so the simple fact is I won’t go anywhere else. I <em><em>could</em></em> use the <a href="https://gregmorris.co.uk/how-to-set/">Strava phone app</a> and a HR monitor and sync this into Apple Health but the Apple Watch just makes everything so seamless.</p><h2 id="notifications">Notifications</h2><p>This has been the biggest revelation. Whilst I thought I was doing <a href="https://gregmorris.co.uk/notifications-haze/">pretty well</a> with managing all the dings and red dots. Turns out I have just been triaging them on my Apple Watch and not <a href="https://gregmorris.co.uk/how-you-use/">sorting the issue</a>. Due to the easy to feel taps on the wrist I can forget about, I have had my phone on silent for years and never really given it much attention. Now that I must have my phone on ringer, I have sorted the problem out for good. Setting up Home, Work and Sleep <a href="https://twitter.com/GR36/status/1445075198886154253">Focus modes</a> to make sure I <em><em>only</em></em> get what I need. Don’t get me wrong I had all the usual suspects turned off but was still pinged a surprising number of times by apps I had neglected. Such las Apples own media apps and personal email.</p><p>Overall. It has been an interesting experience, but I can’t wait to order one on Friday and return to some normality. It’s weird that a bit of tech has thrown me. I could live without it, but I don’t really want to.</p>
